CONTAINER NAME IMAGE SYNTAX : registry_name/ user_name/image_name:tag

DOCKERFILE:
FROM rhel8.8
LABEL
MAINTAINER 
RUN
EXPOSE
ENV 
ADD 
COPY
USER
ENTRYPOINT
CMD

Persistent volumes:
- storage areas to be used by kubernetes pods
Persistent volume claims:
- Represent a request for storageby a pod

configmap was introduced to manage configurations i.e assume there are multiple pods which require configuration settings like strings , api keys,env vars, etc. Instead of hardcoding these values into each pod's configuration, you can create a ConfigMap that holds these values as key-value pairs. Then, the pods can reference the ConfigMap to access the required configuration data.


configmaps and secrets:
contains a set of keys and values that can be used by other resources. HERE, resources means that the key-value pair stored in confgmaps can be accessed and used by components or resources of kubernetes cluster.

secrets: same as configmaps just encrypted and used for sotring sensitive information like keys a dn passwords.

openshift resource types

Deployment config (dc):
represents the set of containers included in a pod and deployment stratergies to be used.
provides basic extensible continuous delivery workflow.

build config:
defines a process to be executeed in openshift project .used by the openshift source to image S2I feature to build a container image from application source code stored in git repository



COREOS && OPERATORS


- oc login 
- oc new-app
- oc get 
- oc  pods



ROUTES:enables us to not only have static ip but also expose that to greate internet and we can give a dns host name to our route
host----------->dnshostname-->router pod ----> service1 -----> pod



oc new-app ---creates--->buildconfguration------>clones from git server--->to builder pod------pushes----> internal registry(application image)&& external registry(S2Ibuilder image) 

S2I stream :
it notifies build configuration if there is an updata/change or security fix added in the image and build configuration reconfigures the builder pod to run application with the issued security fix.

build configuration is responsible for creating the image
deployment configuration is responsible for taking image and creating the application pods based on that image.

SOURCE TO IMAGE BENEFITS
- user efficiency
- patching 
- speed 
- ecosystem
 

